Add Apache Pulsar Inbound Endpoint docs (#1641)
wso2/docs-mi: en/docs/reference/connectors/pulsar-connector/pulsar-inbound-endpoint-example.md

# Apache Pulsar Inbound Endpoint Example

> The Apache Pulsar Inbound Endpoint allows you to connect to Apache Pulsar server and consume messages form topics. The messages are then injected into the mediation engine for further processing and mediation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Apache Pulsar Inbound Endpoint allows you to connect to Apache Pulsar server and consume messages from specified topics. The messages are then injected into the mediation engine for further processing and mediation.
```

- Run and test the integration to receive real-time notifications.

The inbound endpoint acts as a message receiver and injects those messages into an integration sequence. In this section, we will demonstrate how to configure the inbound endpoint to establish a secure connection with the Apache Pulsar server using **TLS encryption** and **JWT-based authentication**. In this example, we will simply log the message, but you can extend this to perform any complex mediation logic using [WSO2 Micro Integrator mediators]({{base_path}}/reference/mediators/about-mediators/).

## Prerequisites 

### Setup Apache Pulsar

To connect with Apache Pulsar using the WSO2 Micro Integrator Apache Pulsar Connector, you need to first set up a running Pulsar instance locally or on a server. In this example, we will use an Apache Pulsar standalone server. Set up Apache Pulsar by following the instructions in [Set up Apache Pulsar]({{base_path}}/reference/connectors/pulsar-connector/pulsar-connector-setup/).

## Configure Inbound Endpoint

1. Follow the steps in [create Integration Project]({{base_path}}/develop/create-integration-project/) guide to set up your project.

> 2. Create a sequence to process the message. In this example, we will just log the message for simplicity, but in a real-world use case, this can be any message mediation.

Author: A separate PR will address this.

      ```xml
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <sequence name="successSeq" trace="disable" xmlns="http://ws.apache.org/ns/synapse">
            <log category="INFO" logMessageID="false" logFullPayload="false">
                <message>${payload}</message>
                <property name="TopicNames" expression="${properties.synapse.topicNames}"/>
                <property name="MessageID" expression="${properties.synapse.messageId}"/>
                <property name="Key" expression="${properties.synapse.key}"/>
                <property name="RedeliveryCount" expression="${properties.synapse.redeliveryCount}"/>
            </log>
      </sequence> 
      ```

2. Then, go to the **Add Artifact** section and select **Event Integration**.

>     <img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/connectors/pulsar-inbound/AddEventIntegration.png" title="Add an Event Integration" width="800" alt="Add an Event Integration"/>

Reviewer: Shall we update this screenshot?

            <parameter name="serviceUrl">pulsar+ssl://localhost:6651/</parameter>
            <parameter name="useKeyStoreTls">false</parameter>
            <parameter name="tlsTrustCertsFilePath">/path/to/ca.cert.pem</parameter>
            <parameter name="authenticationType">JWT</parameter>
            <parameter name="jwtToken">eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJKb2UifQ.ipevRNuRP6HflG8cFKnmUPtypruRC4fb1DWtoLL62SY</parameter>
            <parameter name="topicNames">persistent://public/default/baa</parameter>
            <parameter name="subscriptionName">mySubscription</parameter>
            <parameter name="subscriptionType">Exclusive</parameter>
            <parameter name="subscriptionTopicsMode">PersistentOnly</parameter>
            <parameter name="subscriptionInitialPosition">Latest</parameter>
            <parameter name="contentType">application/json</parameter>
            <parameter name="messageWaitTimeout">3000</parameter>
            <parameter name="processingMode">Sync</parameter>
            <parameter name="dlqMaxRedeliverCount">5</parameter>
            <parameter name="batchReceiveEnabled">false</parameter>
        </parameters>
    </inboundEndpoint>

>     ```      

Reviewer: Let's add a reference to the [Apache Pulsar Inbound Endpoint Reference] page here as well.

</a>

## Run the Integration

In order to deploy and run the project, refer the [build and run]({{base_path}}/develop/deploy-artifacts/#build-and-run) guide or simply use the **Run** button in the Visual Studio Code extension to run the integration.

<img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/integrate/connectors/salesforce-inbound/deploy-run.png" title="Deploy and Run the Integration" width="500" alt="Deploy and Run the Integration"/>

You can further refer the application deployed through the CLI tool. See the instructions on [managing integrations from the CLI]({{base_path}}/observe-and-manage/managing-integrations-with-micli).

## Testing the Integration

You can manually publish messages to Apache Pulsar using the pulsar-client CLI tool, as described in the [official Apache Pulsar documentation](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/next/tutorials-produce-consume/).

Alternatively, you can use the [Apache Pulsar Connector example]({{base_path}}/reference/connectors/pulsar-connector/pulsar-connector-example) to insert data programmatically. In this example, we will use the WSO2 MI Apache Pulsar connector to insert data into the Pulsar topic.

1. Save the following payload as `data.json`:

>    ```json

Reviewer: Check the formatting here.

   {
        "topic": "persistent://public/default/baa",
        "message": "{\"Hello\": \"Pulsar\"}",
        "key": "sample-key",
        "properties": {
            "message-type": "json",
            "event-date": "2025-05-20"
        }
    }
   ```

2. Invoke the API using the following `curl` command:

   ```

>    curl -X POST -d @data.json http://localhost:8290/publishmessage --header "Content-Type:application/json"

Reviewer: Let's add the steps to try this using VSCode itself instead of curl.
